Term Paper
COMP 4630
Donna Petitti

Creating a mobile app is an aspect of entrepreneurship – you are bringing forth an idea in a way that could potentially benefit society. At the beginning of the class, we started to focus on surveying friends, families, peers, etc. to figure out problems that they may face in their own everyday lives. I found this activity to be very useful because there are some miniscule troubles people face that you would never expect.
After surveying these people, we had to further research if an app exists for the struggles that they face – which 9/10 times an app most likely does exist. We had them test the apps to see what their thoughts are regarding it and what they thought was good and what needed improvement. I found that part to be especially helpful because as stated earlier, an app will almost already exist for everything. It’s very difficult to come up with a completely new and innovative idea these days but what we can do, is improve and progress something that has already been developed. 
My first idea was originally to create an alarm-based location app. I took a gap year and decided to travel off to China and teach English to students there. One of the main things in China is that they heavily rely on public transportation – which was also my main source of transportation while I was living there. Being a teacher, I had early mornings and would be quite sleepy during my transportation to work. I’ve ran into an issue where I overslept a bus stop and wasted more time having to go back and forth to get to my original destination. This is where my idea of creating an alarm-based app came in – where it would wake you based off if your location is approaching the designated stop you chose. I always thought that this was a good idea and was originally going to go with it, however during a group discussion in class, another student brought up an idea regarding location and Professor Haim stated the struggles with using maps in an app due to not having an original map service to provide for the app. Thus, my idea was completely washed away.
I did not let this drawback detour me. It was back to the drawing board with figuring out an app that I felt passionate to create but also would solve a problem within the community. I have a friend that brought up to me some struggles he was having with a roommate. This gave me an idea, to create a roommate app but add in a little bit extra to it. I noticed that the roommate my friend was having issues with was a random person who they did not know before going into the housing situation. I was thinking that this could be a reason why they are running into problems, because they have a bit of trouble communicating to each other due to not having the comfortability of hashing out any trouble they have.
Of course, there are plenty of roommate apps out there with basic organization and planning for the home. But I wanted to add in a social aspect too, which is where my innovation on an existing idea comes into play. Adding in little mini games to the app to “get to know” your roommates could be a fun activity to help them bond closer. I thought that this could help eliminate struggles with communicating to each other and to grow a deeper level of friendship since the people are sharing a home together.
I began to start implementing my app. At first, I was clueless on where to begin. I thought about how a core aspect within the app is to have individual user information and thus that’s where the implementation of a login came into play. I was able to create a basic generic login with a designated user ID and password – it was a bit confusing and difficult at first, but I felt proud about it afterwards. My issue though is that I don’t really have a database where a user can create their own login. I just have one assigned username and password which is the only account that exists within my app. 
After the login page I began to work on what I wanted to be the homepage of my app. Here it contains various activities the user can access such as chores, events, and shopping lists. I struggled a bit with this though and I’m still in the process of creating the activities and lists for them. 
My next step now is to create the social aspect of the app which I’m still trying to figure out how. Do I need to create a database filled with random prompts that can appear for a user to answer? Or should I do something a bit more basic since I am a bit unfamiliar with databased at the moment. I think adding in a chat would also be fun but with that I still am also unsure with how to implement it. I have quite a bit more to learn and work on.
Something I struggle with is feeling a bit defeated that the app is not coming out the way that I had originally envisioned it. My level of programming for apps is still very basic and low so my expectations should not be as high as they are. It’s just a bit saddening that it does not look the exact way that I want but I have begun to accept that. This is all a huge learning process for me since I have never worked on something like this before. But, funnily enough, I find this more enjoyable than I ever thought I would.
Before the class, I always thought creating mobile apps was not for me and that I didn’t see myself growing in this field. However, after taking this course I learned that it satisfies my passion of creativity and creating things aesthetically appealing to myself.
I am very thankful I went out of my comfort zone and experienced this class to open more doors for myself. It’s been a great learning experience all while being entertaining for me as well. 
